Episode 10 - Blink

One of my favourite episodes of all time despite it not having much of the The Doctor. I think it's also a great episode to introduce people to what Doctor Who is about - time, monsters, witty banter and adventure. The Weeping Angels are one of the scariest and best new monsters firstly because statues are everywhere and secondly because they are genuinely freaky and grotesque.

The main protagonist in this episode is Sally Sparrow who has one of the best quotes/conversations - "I love old things, they make me feel sad" "What's good about sad?" "It's happy for deep people". 

Two of the people she knows gets sent back in time by the Weeping Angels so we get the weird situation where she's talking to a young detective one minute and then the next minute she's visiting him in a nursing home where he's a 70 year old man having taken the slow path back to the present. It turns out that The Doctor and Martha have also been sent back to 1969 and are stuck there until Sally can send the TARDIS back to them. How this happens is a wonderfully weird time loop. At the end of the episode Sally runs into the Doctor and Martha (who don't know her) and hands them her full written account of her experience. At some point in the future, the Doctor and Martha get sent back to 1969 but they have the transcripts and details from Sally's account so back in 1969, they set things up so that by 2007, everything is in place for Sally to send the TARDIS back to 1969. And then she writes down her account...you get the picture.

We go through Sally's experience as she slowly figures out what to do and finds the crumbs the Doctor has set up. Her best friend's brother Larry Nightingale acts as side-kick as he locates easter eggs on the 17 DVDs that Sally owns, each with a pre-recorded one-sided conversation. It's eerie as we see TV-Doctor first spout random lines then seemingly hold a conversation with Sally until we realise he's reading from a transcript that Larry is writing down in the present as he watches the conversation between Sally and TV-Doctor. Loopy much!

Another great quote - "the angels have the phone box".

One question that did bug me - the angels can only move and attack when they aren't being watched hence the refrain "don't blink, blink and you're dead". But, surely alternating the eye you close would work just fine? Wink rather than blink! Stephen Moffat said the same in a panel BUT, that would be rather boring and take away the suspense and terror that Sally and Larry experience. 

But overall this was a fantastic episode and the angels are a favourite monster, popping up again in several future series including the rather tear-jerking "The Angels Take Manhatten".