Episode 9 - The Family of Blood

Part two of this two-parter picks up where the last episode ended, with Martha and Nurse Redfern held captive and The Doctor forced to choose between 
them. But he is saved when Tim Latimer opens the fob watch and distracts the aliens (he does this several times throughout the episode). People flee and 
The Doctor, Martha and Nurse Redfern return to the school. The students take up defensive positions and prepare for battle against the aliens. 
'The Family of Blood' as they call themselves arrive with their scarecrow army.
		
	

When the time comes, The Doctor is unable to fire at the scarecrow army and after the Headmaster is killed, he calls for retreat. The trio flee to 
an empty house where John Smith is once again confronted with the truth, he is not who he thinks he is, he is The Doctor and he must take the fob 
watch (brought by Tim Latimer) and become the Time Lord he is. Only problem, he's made quite a nice life here and he doesn't want to 'die'. He doesn't 
want to lose everything he's gained. I love how Tim Latimer describes The Doctor - 
"He's like fire and ice and rage. He's like the night, and the storm in the heart of the sun. 
He's ancient and forever. He burns at the center of time and he can see the turn of the universe. And... he's wonderful"

It's strange and heart-wrenching to see The Doctor/John Smith having to come to grips with the truth and the decision he has to make. He can see 
what his life would be like as a human (marriage, children) and he doesn't want to let it go. But in the end, he gives it all up to become The Doctor.
	How the Doctor blows up The Family's ship (swiping buttons on the wall) makes no sense (really, who would design a spaceship like this) but it's done.
 What he does to 'The Family' in the end is quite chilling - the fury of a Time Lord. Made more so by the narration of the son - 
"We wanted to live forever. So the Doctor made sure we did." It's somewhat reminiscent of his actions in the Christmas episode "The Runaway Bride"
	when he sentences the Racnoss' children to death. It's a reminder of the darkness within him.

But it's also heart-breaking for Nurse Redfern, who never expected to fall in love again and finds out that the man she's falling for is not who she 
thinks he is. The Doctor asks Nurse Redfern to join him in the TARDIS, that maybe they could start again. But she declines, asking him - 
if he hadn't come, would those who were killed have died? In her mind The Doctor hid amongst them, leading the aliens to them, while John Smith was willing to 'die'. She hasn't forgiven him for what happens, it hurts far too much. But, she still has John Smith's journal (which pops up again
 several seasons from now).

All in all an enjoyable two-parter. There were seriously creepy aliens. A different and intriguing set of circumstances and take on The Doctor.