Episode 8 - Human Nature

So this is the first of the two-part episodes and it's an interesting change in dynamics as the Doctor, literally, becomes human. There's a 
		group of aliens hunting The Doctor but they've got only a limited amount of time so The Doctor decides to hide and wait out the 3 months. Using 
the chameleon arch (which will pop up again later this series), he wipes his memories and turns himself human. Human John Smith, teacher of a boys'
		boarding school in England in 1913, with Martha tagging along as his maid, watching over him. All his memories are stored in a fob watch.		

He may have forgotten who he is but his memories seep through in his dreams and the journal he keeps is full of drawings and fantastical 'stories'. 
For two months, all seems to be going well but then, trouble starts brewing on a few fronts. First, John Smith begins to fall in love with Nurse 
Joan Redfern (which leads to heartbreak later) and secondly, the aliens have landed. Martha is flummoxed. The Doctor had left a video of instructions 
on what to do in his 'absence' but he hadn't anticipated falling in love or an alien encounter.

The aliens by the way, take form by possessing several humans and are pretty creepy, particularly the actor playing the 'son'. 
	He's got the strangest expressions and mannerisms. This family of aliens call each other 'mother-of-mine, son-of-mine' etc.
 The scarecrow army is scary too in the way they've sewn the eyes and mouths. They suspect and 
sense that The Doctor is in the area but not having seen his face, don't know what he looks like. Tim Latimer, one of the school boys has low-level 
telepathic abilities and ends up taking the Doctor's fob watch and being able to hear his whispers. When he unwittingly opens the watch and releases 
some of whatever-is-inside, the aliens pick up the scent. Tim sees glimpses of the truth throughout the episode, the truth of 'John Smith', of Martha, 
of his own future but it's all confusing and the watch tells him to wait, to hide.

Martha, having realised that the aliens have managed to track them tries to get The Doctor back but the fob watch is gone and John Smith is having 
none of her nonsense. He's asked Nurse Redfern to the village dance and effectively throws Martha out. But she's not giving up and tries to confront 
him again at the Dance. The episode ends on a cliffhanger as the aliens enter the dance and having figured out that John Smith is The Doctor, 
		hold Martha and Nurse Redfern hostage, forcing the Doctor to choose between them.

It's an intriguing episode as The Doctor isn't the font of knowledge and we see him as a human, bumbling about as humans do, doing things that we'd 
never see him do as The Doctor (teaching children to prepare for war, getting into a relationship). It's also difficult for Martha, reduced to 
		being a maid during a time when women and people of colour were subservient to the men, having to watch over The Doctor who had no idea of her worth.		