Episode 8 - Father's Day

If you could go back in time and save someone, would you?

Rose never knew her father as he died when she was a baby, so it's only natural that she would want to see him when he was alive. That's what time machines are for right? The Doctor obliges by taking her to her parent's wedding, where Pete Tyler gets Jackie's name wrong (it's pretty funny). But then Rose ups the ante by wanting to see her father on the day he died. He died alone, the victim of a hit and run and Rose wants to be there for him so he doesn't have to die alone.

Can't see any trouble brewing right? Well Rose can't just stand idly by and watch him die so she saves him. The Doctor is furious. One ordinary man who was dead is now alive. There's a wound in time, and the reapers (CGI winged breasts) have come to sterilise the wound by killing everyone in the world. Rose of course questions this because they travel the universe and save people all the time but the Doctor knows what can and can't be changed (this is delved into in the Series 4 Special 'The Waters of Mars' when The Doctor meddles with a fixed point).

Seeing Rose's parents (Pete and Jackie) interact was loads of fun. Jackie's 80's hair and mouthy attitude is in full force, after all, her husband has just turned up with a much younger blonde! Witnessing her parents fighting and realising that her father wasn't a successful businessman was an eye opening experience for Rose and she realised that her parent's marriage was no fairytale. 

We see how much The Doctor cares about Rose because he realises fairly early on how he can save the world, but at the cost of Pete Tyler's life. The Doctor won't put Rose through it again so he does everything he can to find another way. But when the Doctor's plans go south, Pete steps up to set things back the way they should be, by running out into the path of the car that should have killed him. It's tragic, but this time Rose manages to be with him before he dies. 

This story focused heavily on Rose's backstory and her family and is one of my favourites - the human connection, the great dialogue and interaction between the characters, I feel it really grounds the series. Because how many times do we think....oh if only I could go back in time and change this or that? Sure, we would love to explore the unknown, watch history unfold before us, but I think we'd also be sorely tempted to change our own past. And this episode investigates the dangers and consequences of that.