Episode 10 - The Doctor Dances

The episode begins right where we left off, with The Doctor, Rose and Jack surrounded in a hospital ward by gas masked zombies. The Doctor, realising that it's a hive mind controlled by the child, rather humorously tells them "go to your room". He speaks to them as he would an angry parent to a child and the group obeys, slowly trundling back to their beds. The trio make their way to the room of patient zero only to later realise....the Doctor just sent the child to his room! Next begins a funny chase scene as Captain Jack with his super sonic device and The Doctor with his rather pitiful-in-comparison sonic screwdriver attempt to sonic their way to a safe spot. 

It's been clear in the series that The Doctor and Rose do not see themselves as boyfriend/girlfriend, as much as everyone else calls them a couple. He's a 900 year old Time Lord who's still recovering from war and she's a 19 year old shop-girl who still sort of has a boyfriend in Mickey. But the introduction of Captain Jack throws a bit of a spanner in the works and The Doctor is not entirely pleased with the attention Rose is giving to him. Compared to Mickey and Adam, Jack is competition. And the Doctor makes it quite clear to Jack that Rose is off limits at the end of the episode when The Doctor 'remembers' how to dance and refuses to let Jack cut in on his dancing with Rose. It's kinda cute really.

It's an interesting episode because there were no real bad guys. The nanogenes in the crashed Chula warship had never encountered a human before and therefore when they 'healed' the child they assumed the gas mask was part of his form. Reuniting Nancy and the child in the presence of the nanogenes allows them to recognise the mother DNA as the superior and correct form. The nanogenes heal the child and other gas masked zombies back to the correct human form. As the Doctor ecstatically proclaims "Everybody lives Rose. Just this once, EVERYBODY LIVES." Of course, the nanogenes heal everything including, missing limbs, which leads to a funny exchange between a patient and the hospital doctor.

It was a great two-part epsiode - a creepy mystery, a happy ending and a new addition to the TARDIS family.