Episode 1 - Rose

The very first episode in the Doctor Who reboot. This wasn't the first episode I saw (that went to Bad Wolf) but watching it, I can see it was a great introduction to the world of Doctor Who. Having not seen any of the old Classic episodes, I didn't really have any expectations. But having a rather massive fan base built over several decades, the production team had their work cut out bringing in a new generation into the programme while still keeping it true to the original. It helped that the creators of the new series were massive fans themselves, so the show was in safe hands.

Firstly, the choice of The Doctor. A lot of pressure would have been on Christopher Eccleston's shoulders after the rather gimmicky Doctors towards the end in the 80s and the failed reboot in 2000. The silliness meant that the show wasn't taken very seriously. For the show to make an impact they needed someone with presence. Christopher Eccleston was the right choice for the 21<sup>st</sup> Century. He was in a word, northern. And that's the kind of Doctor we needed. He was rough and hard and serious and you didn't mess with him in his leather jacket. But he was also so much fun and saw joy in life and got excited by the smallest things. His ability to bounce between the two extremes showed the depth and breadth of Christopher Eccleston's acting abilities and he to this date is still my favourite Doctor.

Every Doctor needs a companion. The Doctor is an alien genius but the companions are our link to the Doctor's world and Billie Piper's Rose Tyler was a companion we could relate to. She grew up on the tough estates with her single mother, not having finished school and stuck in a boring job. She was an ordinary girl about to go on an extraordinary adventure. And along with Rose we got her mother Jackie, boyfriend Mickey and eventually her dad Pete as well. Rose grew so much as a companion over the years and she and her family grounded the Doctor in our lives. She also wasn't afraid to stand up to the Doctor when she thought he was wrong and do what is necessary, even in the face of danger.

The danger this week - living plastic. The nestene consciousness (a giant blob) turns shop window dummies into autons, moving plastic that ends up roboting around shooting people. The Doctor is investigating and in the process blows up Rose's work and saves her life. Then he tells her to forget him. She investigates 'the Doctor' and finds out that he's popped up throughout history. Poor Mickey gets taken by the plastic and Rose takes a quick trip in the TARDIS after the Doctor rips plastic-Mickey's head off. The two track down the nestene consciousness and Rose saves the day with her gymnastic skillz. The Doctor invites her to explore space which she refuses but when he leaves then returns telling her about time...we end with her running into the TARDIS and beginning her journey as a proper companion.

This episode set the scene and for Classic fans, simplified things by removing the other Time Lords from the equation (due to the Time War which happened some period of time before this reboot and after the movie). The Doctor is the last of his kind. 

Looking back 10 years on, I still have fond memories of the epsiode that started it all.