Episode 9 - The Empty Child

The second two-parter in this series is set during the height of the London Blitz when the Nazis are dropping bombs on London. But something else has fallen from the sky, a Chula (medical) warship that the Doctor and Rose has followed through time and space. This episode introduces us to Captain Jack Harness, an ex-Time Agent turned con-man from the 51st Century. His plan - find a piece of junk, try to sell it and demand upfront payment, then destroy it before the buyer realises he's bought a dud. But this time, his piece of junk carries a deadly cargo with it. Captain Jack is a fantastic character - he's capable withh technology and a tremendous flirt, the type of person able to talk himself out of any situation. He brings a different dynamic to the group.

As in many horror movies, unnatural children are some of the most scary beings you can come across, and this is no exception. This child, with a gas mask fused into his face is slowly creating an army of gas masked zombies. The CGI of people growing gas masks out of their faces is really creepy. The child is roaming the streets, looking for his mummy, projecting his voice onto any audio device and constantly asking "Are you my mummy?"

Nobody seems to know what is going on or who the child is except one girl - Nancy. Nancy lives on the streets and goes house to house during the air raids to find food for other street kids. Although she tells the Doctor that the child is her brother, I think it's not too difficult to see that she's more than likely the child's mother. Having children out of wedlock and especially so young was deeply frowned upon in those days.

The Doctor and Rose are split up for most of the episode and Rose is saved by Captain Jack who with his high tech devices and spaceship, is much more Spock. The three finally meet up in a hospital next to the crash site and the Doctor begins to get an inkling that the mutations are all Jack's fault. After all, the problem started right where his alien spaceship is. The episode ends with the trio surrounded by gas masked zombies who have awaken and are slowly plodding towards them.

How will they escape?
