Episode 3 - Planet of the Ood

Love the Ood. We first saw them two years ago on a space station in The Satan Pit and The Impossible Planet and they are back, this time with history. We get to see where the Ood come from and Donna gets to visit her first off-world planet.

The Ood have been subjugated by the humans and turned into (sorta) mindless servants. The corporation then ships the ood off across the galaxies to be domestic servants. What people don't realise is that natural ood don't have a translator ball, they carry their second brains in their hands (gross). But it shows their level of trust that they would carry their brains outside a protective skull.

Of course, this wouldn't be a Doctor Who episode without action and investigation and the Ood, are building up to a revolution. Some of them are turning rabid and attacking anything in their path. Red eye is always freaky.

One Ood however (Ood Sigma) is much smarter and has been secretly dosing the company head with an elixir that is slowly turning him into an Ood. It was really quite gross at the end when he peeled away his face to reveal...an Ood face underneath.  But he totally deserved it. He disregarded both human and ood life, killing the Friends Of The Ood insider who secretly worked to free the Ood and giving the order to destroy hundreds of ood. I suppose in a sense the ood to him were nothing more than cattle. 

The Ood prevail as the electrical field around their giant central brain (that connects all Ood) is switched off ("the circle must be broken"). It was a bit of a sad episode and Donna realises that space is not all it's cracked up to be. She thought she'd see amazing things (and she has) but she's also seen that there's still the ugly side to humanity - selfish and power-hungry.

One of the best quotes kind of tinged with sadness - Ood Sigma: "And know this, Doctor Donna. You will never be forgotten. Our children will sing of the Doctor Donna. And our childrens’ children. And the wind and the ice and the snow will carry your names forever."