Episode 11 - Turn Left

Last episode was a Doctor-centric episode and this time it's Donna's turn. Donna may think she's a nobody but as Rose tells her - she's the most important woman in all of creation. A bit of an over-the-top bold statement, but we get to see in this episode what the past two years would have been like without the Doctor. A world where Donna never crashes into the TARDIS as the Doctor is saying goodbye to Rose, never saves him from his rage against the Racnos, a world where the Doctor died that night and never regenerated. 

Somehow, a parallel world has been created around Donna and in it, Donna makes one fateful step (turns right) that kicks off a chain of events. The Doctor stops the Racnos but loses his life; Sarah Jane saves the Royal Hope Hospital from the Judoon but both she and Martha Jones perish; The Titanic crashes into London decimating the lower third of England; 60 million Americans get turned into baby blobs of adipose; Gwen Cooper, Ianto Jones and Captain Jack defeat the Sontarans and ATMOS; the stars start disappearing from the sky. It's a bleak future and a hard life as humanity struggles against the various alien invaders and people lose hope.

These name drops lead to the biggest reveal of all - Rose Tyler. She's sure come a long way from a shop girl with no A-levels. She's been popping up here and there throughout the series and now we find out why. The walls are between the worlds are crumbling and she's been blitzing through the cracks trying to find the Doctor. She was too late, but realises Donna is the key, the only one who can fix things. So when Donna is finally ready, Rose explains what's been going on, the brighter future she should be having with the Doctor, and sends Donna back in time to that pivotal moment when she turned right instead of left. Rose sadly understands, and Donna eventually does too, that Donna must die for this to happen. So Donna bravely steps infront of a truck which results in back-in-time Donna turning left.

This breaks the spell and we return to the present in the off-world planet where the bug-creature that created the parallel world around Donna falls off her and dies. The Doctor returns and in conversation jogs Donna's memory about the blonde woman who told Donna to tell the Doctor two words. Those two words - Bad Wolf. Muahaha...danger awaits. And we end the episode with the cloister bell going off and the Doctor now knowing something is very very wrong.  

It was an interesting episode and a twist on a traditional flashback. They managed to revisit old events and characters but change it by removing one factor - the Doctor.