Episode 10 - Midnight

Wow. This was an incredibly intense episode that played on psychological fear, which is often the greatest fear of all - the fear of the unknown, of the other. I like this episode because it is so unlike other Doctor Who episodes but at the same time, the group-think and mass hysteria is really intense. And sadly quite a realistic portrayal of human nature.

The Doctor and Donna visit a mysterious planet called Midnight and Donna waves off the Doctor to spend the episode at a spa. The Doctor joins a cruise across the planet surface but the transport breaks down and an unnamed and unseen entity invades the cabin and posesses one of the passengers, driving everyone absolutely bonkers.

The ease with which fear and hysteria is whipped up is rather frightening. All it really took was one very anxious passenger to kick start the panic. You could see it happening, the one passenger who jumped immediately to the worst conclusion and then would not stop talking long enough to let logic and reason get a word in. Ironically if everyone had simply just shut up and not talked (rather than persist in telling the passenger to shut up - which she obviously couldn't), it wouldn't have gotten so out of hand.

Because this episode was all about voice. The entity first repeated everyone's speech with a slight delay, then spoke at exactly the same time as everyone. In the final phase, it stole the Doctor's voice and started speaking <i>before</i> he did, so the crowd thought that <i>he</i> was the one infected.  

The Doctor was oddly powerless and all his grand speeches and clever talking came to nothing because <i>she</i> was speaking the same time he was. In a really cool (but extremely difficult to act) part, both she and the Doctor spoke the square root of pi to 30 decimal places. Bet that was a treat to film. 

What was frightening was that in the space of 10-15 minutes they went from a group of easy going passengers chatting with each other to a fearful and aggressive mob intent on murdering their fellow passenger and not just one but as many as it took. True, the driver and mechanic were killed off screen but there was nothing actually physically threatening them and no guarantee that chucking people into the toxic atmosphere would kill the entity. After all, that's where the entity came from in the first place. 

The scariest things are those that are unseen. And the most dangerous and terrifying  monsters are ourselves.  