Episode 1 - Partners in Crime

Yay, the return of Donna Noble. We met Donna one year ago when she got caught up in an alien invasion during her wedding. She declined the Doctor's invitation to join him but has realised that nothing compares. Went to Egypt, did the usual tourist thing and would you know it, back at work before you know it.

But she's determined to find the Doctor so she tells her star gazing grandad Wilfred to keep an eye out for a blue box (they are so sweet together) and the Donna starts snooping around anything that's weird and possibly alien because how else do you find the Doctor?!

The first half is brilliant with near misses as they both investigate the same company - Adipose Industries - for the diet pills they're promoting ("The fat just walks away" - literally!). When they finally meet up in the same spot, it is classic. Miss Foster is toying with another investigative journalist when Donna peeks in through the door window and the Doctor peeks in outside from a window cleaner. They both spot each other and then begins a hilarious mime by Donna as she acts out what she's been up to, until they are caught by Miss Foster and the chase begins.

The adipose (fat) are such cute little square blobs. They form from the fat in the middle of the night when people are asleep (literally walking away) but with Miss Foster caught she triggers a mass spawning of adipose and people everywhere start wriggling about as the fat blobs move inside them before popping out.

Ongoing theme clue for this season - the adipose planet has disappeared

It was also a relief that they acknowledge the kinda big elephant in the room and made it clear that there would be no romantic unrequieted feelings this series. The Doctor and Donna are just gonna be mates (which made for a bit of fun when Donna misheard his intentions "to mate"). 

The suprise at the end - the return of Rose! She's somehow made it back from Pete's World and must be trying to find the Doctor.

It was also sweet that Donna's first request is to fly to the portion of the sky her grandad peers at so he gets to see her and the Doctor (who he recognises) in the blue box.