Episode 7 - The Zygon Invasion

Osgood returns in this epsiode...whoa hang on a sec...didn't she die in last series' finale? Well...sorta. This epsiode ties in very nicely with the 50<sup>th</sup> aniversary special which re-introduced the aliens the Zygons. The Zygons are shapeshifters and in the special, took on the form of Kate Stewart and Ingrid Osgood (among others). There were some nice flashbacks to set the scene as we remember that in the end, a peace treaty was brokered between the humans and zygons, allowing for the peaceful settlement of 20 million zygons on Earth. Not quite sure how that works since zygons copy the form of humans so surely this means there are a lot of 'duplicates' out there - doesn't anybody notice?

But back to Osgood. So there were two Osgoods and they ended up getting along. In fact, they got along so well that nobody knew/knows which Osgood was/is human and which zygon.  So when Missy killed Osgood last series, we don't actually know which Osgood was killed off. Normally a zygon requires the human host alive to keep the imprint but apprarently they've evolved and are now knocking off the humans as they finish imprinting. The Osgoods were the Doctor's 'backup/alert' in case anything went wrong. So when a faction of the zygons decides that yes, they actually do want to take over the planet and live as zygons rather than hiding as humans, the remaining Osgood (who won't reveal whether she's human or zygon) alerts the Doctor. Then gets kidnapped by the rebels.

The majority of the episode has the Doctor, Clara and UNIT spread out across the Earth trying to find out what is going on and how bad the situation is. UNIT is trigger happy but the Doctor wants to negotiate. That's going to be pretty tough because the episode ends with UNIT pretty much decimated, the zygon revolution well underway and zygon-Clara shooting an RPG at the Doctor's plane. Uh huh...zygon Clara shoots down the Doctor's plane. The reveal of zygon-Clara is done well and looking back, there are a few clues that Clara's not quite Clara. But she's been acting a bit recklessly, a bit bolder this series so her behaviour isn't completely out of the ordinary (except maybe the bit with the gun). And a side note - there are a whole lotta female leaders/protagonists in ths episode.

So I loved this episode. It was nice getting a monster that was a bit more fleshed out and a proper threat. The zygons are clever enemies because they can take on the appearance of a loved one and in that way undermine any attack (could you shoot a being wearing the face of your mother/father/sibling/child? - so far this episode - no). Loved Osgood and UNIT returning (even if UNIT seem a little underpowered...like seriously what exactly do they do?!). Loved the twist at the end with Clara turning out to be zygon-Clara and the mastermind behind the whole operation. Loved the original zygon high command taking on the appearance of 7 year old children. Loved the Doctor's electric guitar making an appearance. That looks to be his thing this series/Doctor. Loved the flashbacks to the 50<sup>th</sup> episode and the tie-in with Missy in the finale Death in Heaven as well as the references to the zygon adventures from the 70s/80s. Loved the Doctor loving his presidential plane.

Some quibbles - Kate Stewart going to Truth and Consequence on her own with absolutely no back up at all; Kate not being just a little bit suspicious that the sheriff alone survived and stuck around in an empty town and the lack of any US military/intelligence presence; The Doctor just standing there as the drone narrowed in on target (and as if the drone would get close enough for facial recognition - in any case, how does the zygon read the operator's mind to copy her family?!); The complete capitulation of a seemingly elite military force (UNIT) - I understood how difficult it would be to shoot your 'mother' but seriously, a whole band of soldiers walking into a known enemy stronghold?!

The episode continues a number of themes that have run throughout this series - Clara once again spends most of the episode separated from the Doctor; there were flashbacks to past actions and the idea of how the past impacts the present/future (the Doctor and child Davros, going back in time with the not-there were ghosts, Ashilder, Pompeii, the zygons); and hybrids (Davros and the "prophesy", Ashilder, Osgood). 

We're heading to the pointy end of the series so it'll be interesting to see if any of these threads mean anything and impact the finale and Clara's departure. But so far, it's been a pretty solid season and I think some part of that is down to the two-part format which has allowed for better storyline and character development.