Episode 11 - Heaven Sent

Wow.

My brain is still spinning from this week's episode which was a bit of a mind bender for so many reasons. It's possibly one of the weirdest episodes ever. Coming off last week's episode where Clara died, the Doctor has been transported to essentially his own personal interrogation torture chamber for reasons we are still yet to discover. Which means that the episode essentially featured Peter Capaldi and only Peter Capaldi who put on a fantastic solo performance. 

There were many shout-outs to matters mentioned earlier this series from 'the hybrd' to the confession dial to the return of Gallifrey. The Doctor is trapped and the episode consists of him trying to figure out where he is and how to get out. It's his own personal nightmare, he's being followed by a shady slow-shuffling creature in a castle that resets and rotates and shifts every time the creature is stopped, and only stopped by a confession from the Doctor. We also get to see the Doctor's thought processes when he works out how to escape death. The Doctor goes to his mental palace (similar to Sherlock) and his version is of course, the TARDIS. Clara's gone but she lingers in the episode both in his mental TARDIS (the Doctor speaks as if she is still there listening to him and gives him feedback on the chalkboards) and in a portrait that is in one of the rooms. A very <i>old</i> portrait. The castle is situated in the the middle of the ocean surrounded by skulls, seemingly from previous prisoners who died.

Well, we soon figure out how wrong the Doctor is about that. And the reason why the stars are 7000 years out of sync. It's because the Doctor, when we join him has been there in the castle for 7000 years already. That's right 7000 years already. Aw man. And that's not all, by the end of the episode, he's been trapped for 2 billion years! 

Let's pause for a moment to reflect on that. The Doctor has been trapped, alone, afraid, dying and being reborn over and over and over again in a groundhog-day loop for 2 billion years. The only saving grace is that each time he's 'reborn' he's back to square one so he doesn't actually remember being stuck there for that long. So...why and how?

The Doctor finds the way out is hidden behind a block of material (Azbantium(?)) that is 400 times stronger than diamond. But he realises this too late and can only try to break it with his own fist before the creature kills him. Seems impossible but like water eroding rock, in time, the rock gives way. Yes well in this case, two billion years' worth of time. So the 'first' Doctor who gets transported here figures out the puzzle and leaves clues about what to do with the block. Because he's not willing to confess his secrets to the creature, he lets it kill him. But Timelords take ages to die (remember the Tenth Doctor and the radiation regeneration) so he manages to drag himself back to the teleportation room. The teleporter has a 'copy' of him in the hardrive in his original just-teleported state and by activating it, he can bring in another version of himself to go through the whole exercise again. To activate it though, it needs power and the only source available is by burning himself up...hence all the skulls...creepy right. So he dies, another copy is "transported/created" in the teleport and the cycle begins all over again with the Doctor needing to figure things out again from scratch. Each time a little bit more of the block is chipped away.

Let's not go into why the block doesn't reset like the other rooms but wow, this is the longest game ever. But does this mean the Doctor at the end is not the same Doctor as last episode but a copy? Something to ponder. Essentially though I guess he's the same Timelord.

So the Doctor breaks through the wall and steps out of a portal into a desert planet. The portal closes into...his confession dial. So he's been trapped inside his confession dial that has been transported to...Gallifrey. That's right, the episode ends with the Doctor looking upon Gallifrey and telling a boy to go tell the others that he's back. Back and since Clara's death to this him is not that long ago, ready to find out who to blame and who should pay for her death. As the Doctor says earlier, Clara may have told him not to take revenge, but he doesn't always listen.

The series arc about 'the hybrid' is also expanded on because the 'hybrid' that the Timelords so feared, is not a melding of dalek and Timelord but the Doctor himself. He quips that <i>he</i> is the one mentioned in the prophesy. I guess we'll find out how next week but the Doctor has always been a more fearsome force than either the Timelords or the daleks. He did after all almost single handedly bring about the end of the Time War.

My brain is still trying to make sense of everything but this was a real puzzle episode with a lot of things not making sense until the truth slowly was revealed. I do have to say that I am not a huge fan of the Moffat era's scale of time. The first five series spanned only a fairly short time-span in the Doctor's life passing through around 10 years (ending at less than 920 years old), the next five series has spanned over 1000 years of the Doctor's life with the Doctor now over 2000 years old. Add 2 billion years in the confession dial and...yeah. This has partly been because in the Russell T Davies era companions lived on the TARDIS and so time cannot pass that quickly while in Stephen Moffat's era the Doctor has only popped in every now and then to take the companions on adventures (with hundreds of years between visits). I know time is wibbly wobbly for a time traveller but it would be nice to slow things down a little.

But back to the episode...a very unique experience. Still puzzled by the episode title 'Heaven Sent' since the Doctor is in his own personal hell.