Episode 2 - The Witch's Familiar

If last week was an action-packed episode this one is more contemplative with a lot more talking and reflecting. Part 2 of the opening episode of Series 9 begins with Clara and Missy seemingly gone and the Doctor alone and stuck in a room with Davros (I guess that battlefield end shot will come later). Well, we know there's no way Missy and Clara can be dead and the intro explains how they escaped. Remember the vortex manipulators Missy strapped on them both? Essentially it used the Dalek's energy beam to recharge and teleport them out. Missy explains that's what the Doctor once used eons ago to escape a similar situation. Not entirely sure how that makes sense as in the Doctor flashback he channeled the beam through the sonic screwdriver into the teleport while with Missy and Clara they were hit in the body with the beam....but in any case they're a-okay albeit back outside on Skaro. The duo are pretty funny while they attempt to get back to the Doctor with Missy being her usual crazy self. They make their way through the sewers/dalek-graveyard (gross).

The Doctor doesn't know they're alive yet (and actually spends most of the epsiode separated from them). There's an emotionally charged scene when the Doctor confronts the daleks, daring them to confirm that Clara is dead...but he does so while rolling around in circles in Davros's chair which is pretty funny. The Doctor and Davros end up have a bit of a heart to heart and it almost appears as if Davros has changed.  But throughout it all I was thinking - Davros has a plan, there's no way he's changed. Davros calls on the Doctor's compassion and in doing so he tricks the Doctor in using a bit of his regeneration energy to give him a health boost. But by touching the central cables, the Doctor is trapped as his regeneration energy is drained and fed into Davros and every other dalek on the planet. The Doctor of course is always one step ahead and the energy is filtering to every dalek on the planet, <i>every dalek</i> on the planet, and the 'dead' as they say, outnumber the living. So goopy old daleks ooze out of the sewers to destroy their contemporaries.

Meanwhile in order to break in, Missy had Clara climb into a dalek-shell (still not sure how this works I mean seriously? there's a whole humanoid empty space inside??!). It's now chaos and in the scramble to get out the Doctor runs into Missy and Clara-dalek. Only the dalek vocabulary is limited so while Missy tries to convice the Doctor to kill this dalek Clara desperately tries to communicate who she is to the Doctor. Everything Clara says comes out wrong but when the Clara-dalek manages to say 'mercy', he realises this is no ordinary dalek. Clara saved! Missy told to get lost!

And so we have our happy ending, but what about what happened on the battlefield with child-Davros? Wasn't the Doctor going to exterminate him? Well, no of course not! The Doctor actually goes back in time to save him, and uses the gun to exterminate all the hand-mines.

Fairly good episode. The conversation between the Doctor and Davros was a bit weird and never entirely believeable. But there were interesting tidbits such as the supposed prophesy of a new dalek-Timelord species (not the first time it happened - 'Daleks in manhatten' in Series 3), how speech translates in daleks (a lot of things convert to 'exterminate') and how daleks never really die but just get old and fall apart and become slime. 

Oh and the Doctor's new sonic item is his sunglasses?! It's been a cracking and different start to the new series.

One question I still have - what's with the name of the episode? Or the last epsisode - The Magician's Apprentice? The Magician is the Doctor and I'm guessing The Witch is Missy. One thought - perhaps Clara is both the apprentice (to the Doctor) and the familiar (Missy certainly treated her like a pet).



 


