Episode 6 - The Woman Who Lived

If you could live forever, how would you change? Will you be anything like who you are in 50 years time, 100 years, 500 years? Would you recognise yourself or remember your past? These are the questions we grapple with in this episode. We know the Doctor is 2000 years old (a bit of a shock when reflecting on Series 1) but it's interesting to see it's effect on others. Captain Jack Harkness didn't change much except that he had loads of experience and was much more serious. But he came from a much more technologically advanced future and didn't have too long to wait to be reunited with the Doctor (in Utopia). Ashilder however, has lived 800 years through a much more difficult era.

The Doctor stumbles on Ashilder and he's shocked and disheartened by what he finds. Ashilder no longer remembers her first life as a daughter of a Viking and now goes by the name of Lady 'Me', a robber and one of the most feared ones at that. She's killed so many she no longer remembers but has volumes and volumes of journals that record all that she's done. She's seen so many deaths, including those of her children, that she no longer cares for the people around her. It's been a lonely experience, a life of heartbreak that no one else understands, no one else shares. As the Doctor said last episode, immortality doesn't feel like living forever, immortality feels like everyone you care for around you dying. So when the Doctor stumbles back into her life, she wants him to take her with him to the stars and beyond.

The Doctor says no and then the rest of the episode centres on them retrieving a jewel that happens to open a portal that the alien of the week wants. Ashilder is working with this alien as he's promised her transportation to the stars but as all evil plans turn to dust, so does this one and in the end Ashilder realises her folly and uses the second healing pack to close the portal. 

There's again a lot of kind of stupid jokes in this episode but a lot of deep reflection again. As the Doctor explains, they can't travel together because it wouldn't be good. Living this long, things stop mattering and that's why he needs Clara, perspective. Those with short lives live in the moment because life is precious and fleeting, every life matters. But Ashilder is also up with the Doctor's modus operandi...save the world then run away and leave the fallout to others. She's lived long enough to already hear whispers of the Doctor's prior Earth visits, seen the aftermath and she vows to protect the Earth from him. But they are not enemies as enemies are easy, it's your friends you have to watch out for.

That's another interesting reference to enemies and friends and who is the real danger. Missy told Clara that she and the Doctor weren't enemies but 'best friends' and yet Missy is always trying to thwart the Doctor. And here Ashilder stands apart/against the Doctor not as enemies but as friends. It's all a bit odd. Clara is missing from this episode until the end as she's taking her class to Tae kwan Do or something but when the Doctor picks her up she shows him a photo taken at school and guess who is in the background but Ashilder! Hard to imagine but she would have been 1200 years old by now!

There's a cool reference to Captain Jack Harkness as another immortal - who knows, maybe they will run into each other one day! And the Doctor helping one of Clara's students with homework. This season has had a more subtle arc. Unlike last series' 'Missy/Paradise' theme which was in-your-face obvious, there hasn't really been anything like it this series. The only consistent (but somewhat subtle) hints are that Clara needs a new hobby and  the Doctor appears concerned about how Clara has changed since her time with him (becoming more like him). We know that Clara is leaving at the end of the series so the Doctor's concerns will probably tie into it somehow. 

The next time segment shows the return of UNIT, Kate Stewart and Osgood...yay. But also the zygons so is Osgood really back since she was apparetly obliterated by Missy?
