Episode 1 - The Magician's Apprentice

Wow. Wow. Wow. What a cracker of an opening episode. There was so much to absolutely love about it. Drama, horror, tragedy and humour all packed into 46 minutes. The episode is the first of a two-parter and mainly focuses on known characters, which means we can jump straight into the story. But the twist, the glorious twist in this episode....mind-blown. As a time traveller your future can affect your past and oh my what has The Doctor done.

I was so excited after the first 5 minutes. The clip before the title sequence shows a war where a child has gotten stuck in a field of hand mines (totally creepy hands that rise up from the muddy ground each with an eye in its palm). The Doctor arrives to save him and tosses his sonic screwdriver over. But then he asks the boy his name. Davros. The creator of the Daleks. This boy, this boy The Doctor sees trapped in a field of hand mines is the same Davros who will go on to create the Daleks that will lead to the Time War and the loss of his people. What will The Doctor do? 

The episode later plays an audio clip from the Fourth Doctor (Tom Baker) from 'Genesis of the Daleks' that sums it up beautifully - "Well, the final responsibility is mine. And mine alone. You see, if someone who knew the future pointed out a child to you and told you that that child would grow up totally evil to be a ruthless dictator who would destroy millions of lives... could you then kill that child?"

The answer it seems is no. But neither can The Doctor bear to save him, and he leaves Davros the child behind. Davros, now, remembers. What happened for The Doctor three weeks ago happened for Davros millenias ago. And as he sits there dying, his final wish is to see The Doctor one last time. But The Doctor has gone to ground because he knows what is coming, he knows what he did, he knows he needs to face Davros and he's trying to put it off. So nobody it seems can find The Doctor. Not even...Missy, who returns in all her evil and witty glory. She is so much fun. She gets the attention of the world (and more importantly, UNIT) to set up a meeting with Clara. The Doctor has given, in accordance with ancient tradition, his last will and testament to his best friend. It's quite funny when Missy (the best friend) points out to Clara that in this relationship, Clara is the pet dog. 

They finally surmise that he's in 12<sup>th</sup>-century England and drop in just as The Doctor makes his grand entrance in the arena...on a tank...playing heavy metal...with an electric guitar. It's a sensational entrance. Peter Capaldi does know how to play the guitar (a lifetime ago he was in a punk-rock band). I'm not sure how much of it was really him playing but in any case it was electrifying. It was also great to see a sillier side to the Twelfth Doctor. There's lots of witty banter before we get to the serious side of things. Davros' messanger arrives with a message...The Doctor's sonic screwdriver, the one The Doctor threw onto the battlefield to child-Davros. After all these years, Davros still has it and The Doctor know what it means. He must face his past. Missy and Clara don't understand what is going on but they see shame on The Doctor's face. Is it shame for running away? For leaving the boy behind? It's harder to hate an enemy you've seen as an innocent child.

The trio are taken to what at first appears to be a space station but turns out to be a re-created Skaro (the home planet of the Daleks) where The Doctor meets Davros. In a short space of time Missy and Clara are exterminated and the TARDIS is destroyed, leaving The Doctor with nothing left to lose. And that's a dangerous position to be in....."if someone who knew the future pointed out a child to you and told you that that child would grow up totally evil to be a ruthless dictator who would destroy millions of lives... could you then kill that child?"

The episode ends back on the battlefield
 with child-Davros only this time, The Doctor is holding a gun and preparing to exterminate him. Push a man to his very limits and 
he may do things he never thought he was capable of. 

What's to love: Missy, The Doctor riffing on his electric guitar, the time loopiness of The Doctor meeting Davros as a child.

Cannot wait to see what happens next week.








 