Christmas Special - The Husbands of River Song

River Song is back! And it was both a hilarious and sad return for her. I thought this episode hit all the right notes with bits of fun, adventure, meaning and sadness. Series 9 has included a lot of reflection and call backs to previous series, which might fly over the head of infrequent Doctor Who viewers but has been a minefield for fans. This episode was no exception as it closes the story-loop of Professor River Song, and it was a very fitting goodbye. 

She's been one of the most complex characters in the new series and a good example of the wibbly-wobblies of time. She and the Doctor have crossed each other's time-streams many times but often out of order and somewhat backwards (which the Doctor jokes about in this episode). The first time we met Professor Song was back with the Tenth Doctor in the Series 4 episode Silence in the Library. He had no idea who she was, but she knew everything about him because for her, that episode follows this Christmas special. I mean just think about that. She goes from meeting a 2000 year old him who knows everything about her, to dying for a 900 year old him who doesn't have a clue who she is. Previous episodes have followed in a similar vein so there has always been a bit of a power imbalance between the two. So admittedly she hasn't been a character I've particularly liked. This Christmas however, they're more or less on the same page.  The Doctor is post-Clara and River is post The Angels Take Manhatten, the last episode we see her in when her parents, Amy and Rory are zapped back into the past. In this episode The Doctor gives her the sonic screwdriver she'll take with her to the library and he finally takes her to see the Singing Towers of Darillium, something he's kept putting off because he knows it will be the last time they meet. River's now met three incarnations of the Doctor and I thought this match-up worked really well. Partly because for most of the episode she had no idea he was the Doctor but also because the balance between them feels just right - his natural seriousness and sort of ancientness offsetting her craziness. He finally saw her for who she is to him and she finally gets her chance to really be with the Doctor, one who knows her and is more than her equal.

The Doctor brings his dry humour with him in this episode and it was particularly funny because River didn't recognise him. He got to see what she gets up to when not with him (like stealing his TARDIS). He also got to be the companion, getting to 'pretend' to see the inside of the TARDIS for the first time and 'do it right'. It was endearing to see his jealous reaction towards all the 'husbands' River had but he also got to hear no holds barred what she thought of him, which was both lovely and also sad ("you don't expect a sunset to admire you back"). One thing Peter Capaldi does so very well is his ability to show in a subtle understated way so many different emotions. Often it's these little expressions that give an insight into his thoughts, much more than words ever could. 

There were aliens, robots, flying spaceships, crashing spaceships, fancy restaurants and we were most decidedly nowhere near Earth. Brilliant.