Episode 5 - The Girl Who Died

There was a lot of hype about this next two-parter as Maisie Williams from Game of Thrones fame was starring in them. Having never seen an episode of Game of Thrones I can't say I was more excited than usual. But it's always fantastic when two fandoms collide :)

The episode starts off kind of weirdly with the Doctor running about the TARDIS console trying to save Clara who's floating in space with an alien spider crawling in her spacesuit. They eventually land in the Vikings era where they are captured and the Doctor tries to pass himself off as Odin the norse god. He utterly fails when "Odin" appears in the sky in a much more awe-inspiring manner. As part of a race that feeds off warriors, the town soon finds themselves without their warriors and declaring war on the Mire (allegedly one of the most terrifying forces in the universe). 

I don't know what it is but the monsters have been a bit rubbish. Once again they are extremely slow and this time, clunky. You sort of wonder how on earth could they be so terrifying and victorious if they just amble about rather stupidly. But I suppose technologically they are far superior than the Vikings.

The Doctor's plan to save the people involves the use of electricity ("fire in the water") and Ashilder (Maisie's character). Ashilder conjures up a story to trick the Mire into believing they are being attacked by a snake monster when really it's just a wooden contraption. The whole thing is filmed with Clara's mobile so there's the blackmail to send the Mire packing. But the victory came at a cost....in creating the visual trick, Ashilder was "used up" by the machine.

And here we find out why the Doctor bears Caecilius's face - it was a reminder to him that he <i>can</i> save someone, even when according to the laws of time he "shouldn't". Not really what I was expecting so it felt just a little bit underwhelming but it was nice to have the flashbacks to the tenth doctor, Donna and The Fires of Pompeii. The face apparently reminds him that the Doctor <i>saves people</i> and that yes, he can bring Ashilder back from the dead. Interestingly the epsiode doesn't hark back to The Waters of Mars and the "Time Lord Victorious" when the tenth doctor decided to defy the laws of time and save Captain Adelaide Brooke although she subverts his actions by killing herself and thus preserving the timeline.

Anyhoot the Doctor brings Ashilder back to life with the Mire technology but in doing so makes her immortal. While Clara and everyone is thrilled, the Doctor is not so sure. As he says "Immortality isn't living forever. That's not what it feels like. Immortality is everybody else dying. She might meet someone she can't bear to lose. That happens. I believe."

So it will be interesting to see how Ashilder lives her life (as we'll see in the next episode). As an immortal, she will be around for a very very long time (like Captain Jack) so it's feasible for her to pop up in more than just next week's episode.

Overall I found it a bit of a meh episode. I'm not sure what it was, there were some insightful lines but the comic relief just didn't quite work, the whole village seemed a bit of a joke.
