Episode 10 - Face the Raven

Clara Oswald is dead.

That was a bit of a shock. I knew it was coming but it was earlier than I expected because there had been pictures that she would be in the finale. I think she still will be but it'll be as a memory or hallucination or something similar as Clara is well and truly dead with no way of coming back (I know, famous last words on Doctor Who but her death was pretty final). 

This episode is the first in the three-part series finale and I loved it. There were all sorts of aliens, a mystery, the return of Rigsy and Ashilder and of course, it was an emotional rollercoaster. One of the themes this series has been Clara's growing recklessness and her acting more and more like the Doctor. Her willingness to take risks in order to save people and trying to be clever and manipulate the system before she knew the full picture was her undoing. Although I had been spoiled yesterday and knew this was Clara's last episode, it still all happened so fast. But even she in a way saw this coming, saw her growing risk taking and willingness to almost flirt with death after losing Danny Pink. Clara's parting words to the Doctor were filled with emotion and an order for him not to seek revenge. Because she knew, particularly after part two of the series opener The Witch's Familiar, that the Doctor would tear the universe apart in fury. The Doctor's line to Ashilder "You'll find that it's a very small universe when I'm angry with you" sums it up. 

So what happened? Well in very Harry-Potter-esque fashion there are alien/magical streets tucked away in London. Rigsy (back from last series' Flatline) calls Clara when he discovers a tattoo counting down on his neck. Counting down the minutes he has left to live. He's been given a death sentence for allegedly murdering one of the alien inhabitants of this refuge, this trap street. The Doctor and Clara and Rigsy investigate and discover that Ashilder (or Mayor Me as she calls herself) set up this refuge and enforces very strict rules. Break them, and you pay the price. And that price is death. Death by raven, which is actually a quantum shade that takes a person's soul. Being an alien refuge there were lots of cool returning and never seen on new-Who aliens. Loved the cobble-stone street setting and the mix of new London with old alien London.

The Doctor realises however, that Mayor Me is hiding something and that this 'murder' and death sentence was just an elaborate trap for him. Mayor Me made a deal with some unknown entity to capture and hand over the Doctor and never intended for Rigsy to die. Only Clara, trying to be clever, meddled with the plan. See you can transfer the 'death sentence' to a willing volunteer. The Doctor had extracted 'absolute' protection from Mayor Me for Clara earlier so Clara arranges for Rigsy to transfer the tattoo to herself, believing that Mayor Me will have to lift the curse. Minor glitch, she can't. You can pass death on but you can't cheat death. Mayor Me could have lifted the mark/curse off Rigsy but now that it's been passed to Clara...her fate is sealed. It was heartbreaking watching that fact sink in with Clara realising that the Doctor can't save the day this time and the Doctor realising that he is powerless to save her. Powerless to save her but so filled with both grief and an anger hell bent on destruction.

He feels the weight of responsibility both because he gave Ashilder immortality (kind of creating this situation) and because he's seen Clara's growing recklessness and not stopped it before it was too late. We learn from Clara that the Doctor has been surveilling Ashilder ever since their last meeting when he realised how damaged (and dangerous) she'd become. She's such a complex character, not quite the villain but sometimes lacking in compassion. In any case she's working with "them" and I look forward to finding out who "they" are next week. It's someone who knows about the Doctor's confession dial...hmmm. That's popped up again. The episode ends with the Doctor teleported to an unknown location to face his greatest fears, the TARDIS left back on Earth with Rigsy decorating it as a memorial to Clara. On a side note - what on earth happened with Clara's body? The Doctor just stares at her on the street after she dies and then goes inside to be teleport out. Clara's still lying dead on the street?! 

A truly emotional episode. It is always heartbreaking when a companion leaves and this was no exception. 

Next week is "Heaven Sent"...not sure what that might refer to since it seems like the Doctor is in serious trouble but the one after is called "Hell Bent". I think the Doctor is going to wreck destruction (or plan/try/want to) on whoever it was that worked with Ashilder and lead to Clara's death. Sure, he kinda promised Clara he wouldn't destroy Mayor Me/Ashilder and that trap street but these other guys, they are going to face the fury of a Timelord.

It's going to be difficult but I'm going to try to avoid any (more) spoilers about the next two episodes. It's already too late as I read one very exciting spoiler but from now on...no more.
