Episode 9 - Sleep No More

This is one of the few stand-alone episodes this series and left more questions than answers. It was very much in the style of the Blair Witch Project (shaky cam) which means much of the "story" is from various camera views. They get around the lack of actual cameras by saying the dust is acting as a visual input (which is still sort of odd but anyhow). It kinda works because it's a horror story but it's a lot less effective than the Under the Lake and Before the Flood epsiodes and really - we already had monsters on a station/base this series so it's a little disappointing they couldn't go with another setting. We still haven't truly gone to another civilisation this series (excluding the daleks).

Like the title, humanity has modified the sleep process so people don't need to sleep any more. They can get into machines (Morpheus) for cat naps which compact an entire night's sleep into five minutes so there's less time spent sleeping and more time spent working (.<i>...yay...</i>). But of course there are side effects. The episode doesn't really explain how it works but somhow the crust that we get in our eyes from sleeping have turned into sandy-mucous monsters that want to consume us. It still doesn't really make sense, but everybody runs around trying to escape the monsters and figure out what's going on. Bottom line, the monsters want to get off the space station and to civilisation (Triton) so they can consume the people there.

The episode starts, ends and is interspersed with narrative from the Morpheus-machine creator who initially tells us not to watch the footage he'd cut together and then ends by telling us that he'd cut all the videos together to create a compelling story so we would be compelled to watch. Compelled to watch because the monsters are spread by electronic signals and...we've just been infected by watching the video. Right. But because he'd cut the footage from the space station, we don't get to see what the Doctor, Clara and Ngano (rescue crew captain) do once they get into the TARDIS. So in a way the episode ends sort of hanging in the air.  The space station is blown up but does the Doctor go to Triton to destroy the other Morpheus machines? Does he fix Clara (who temporarily spent some time in one of them)? How are the monsters created in the first place? Like I said, more questions than answers.

It was great to see a mix of races amongst the rescue crew who was led, again, by a female. But we never really got to know or connect with any of them before they inevitably died. All in all it was a scary horror episode using a different and interesting technique, but it was a bit meh because we've already done the base/station storyline this year. I am looking forward to next week's episode which will be back on Earth but it looks like we'll be taking a trip down Doctor Who's alien equivalent of Diagon Alley. We'll see the return of Rigsy and Maisie Williams as Ashilder (who may have changed her name again). And the next episode will also be the start of Clara's goodbye as she only has two episodes left.

