Episode 4 - Before the Flood

A time loopy episode tinged with a bit of sadness. The epsiode begins with the Doctor telling a story about Beethoven to describe a bootstrap or ontological paradox. If the past caused the future that caused the past - what caused the first loop? As the Doctor tells it, a time traveller loved Beethoven and so travelled into the past to meet him. Problem - nobody had ever heard of him. The time traveller couldn't imagine a world with no Beethoven and so copied out all of Beethoven's music and had them published, essentially becoming Beethoven. But he had copied it from music he already had and knew and since <i>he</i> was the one who copied it out in the past...where did it actually originally come from? Hence, a bootstrap paradox, a loop with no beginning or end.

But back to the present and the ghost Doctor. The ghost Doctor is slightly different to the others because he's saying a list of all their names (except Lunn) - Moran, Pritchard, Prentis, O'Donnell, Clara, Doctor, Bennett, Cass. Clara lets the Doctor know about the ghost Doctor and it gets a bit emotional with Clara demanding that he change history and not die on her because she needs him. And then the Doctor 'talks' to ghost Doctor which is a bit surreal.

The Doctor however is in the past and still very much alive. There's a couple of funny shoutout moments with O'Donnell as she mentions Rose, Martha and Amy and some past (and future-for-us) events. She is clearly a fan of the Doctor and it was funny to see her wait for the Doctor to walk off and then jump out and down squeeing about being in the TARDIS and then acting cool about it. So it's doubly sad when she dies as I would have loved to have seen more of her in the episode. Her death gets Bennett riled up because he realises at this point the order of the names the Doctor was repeating and confronts the Doctor because the next name is Clara. He's angry because the Doctor knew O'Donnell was next and let her die to test his theory, but will do anything to save Clara. Only, the TARDIS won't let the Doctor leave and sends them back 30mins. It was a bit like in Harry Potter when Harry and Hermione trace their steps and follow their "previous selves" around for a bit. The Doctor eventually confronts the Fisher King and kills him by blowing up the dam with the energy capsule. Bennett is in the TARDIS by now and Security Protocol 712 sends him back to the underwater base while the Doctor as I suspected stows himself in the hibernation chamber. Geez he had a good 150 year sleep!

On the base, the trio eventually get chased by the ghosts into the bay with the chamber which opens revealing...the Doctor. He draws and traps the ghosts in the faraday cage and then as Clara earlier mentioned....they listen to the Doctor explain how he saved the day. Turns out the 'ghost doctor' was just a hologram similar to hologram Clara. It activated when they brought the chamber onto the base. The other 'ghosts' are also just electromagnetic projections that were out of phase with the base's day mode. Everything Clara told the Doctor over the phone gave him the information he needed to set things up in the past to happen in the future.

So...happy ending...kinda. Because O'Donnell is gone so that's sad. Bennett stands outside the Faraday cage looking in and asks what does he do now. The Doctor doesn't understand but Clara does. Clara's been through the exact  same thing with Danny. She tells him what he needs to hear and then Bennett tells Lunn that he needs to tell Cass that he loves her now, before it's too late. So sweet.

Great episodes. I liked all the characters, the two time periods 'running concurrently' and affecting each other, the Doctor playing the electric guitar, Cass figuring out she was being followed by the floor vibrations, did I mention all the characters. I feel having a double episode gives us more time to get to know the characters better, which is always a good thing. Admittedly the character-centric episodes mean the main 'bad guy' the Fisher King, gets a little short-changed and although he looks brilliant, he isn't all that scary and we still don't know much about him. One thing it's made me realise though...bad guys move really sloooow - the Fisher King, the cybermen, the daleks (well...usually), the scovox whatever, the mummy, the clockwork droids. Bad guys move robotically slow!

