Episode 12 - Hell Bent

Okay so that was a weird but fascinating episode with so much happening it's hard to know where to begin...

The Doctor is back on Gallifrey. Gallifrey! He didn't reveal the secret of the hybrid (which the Timelords believe the Doctor knows, hence the trap)  in the confession dial because he wanted to reach Gallifrey. Once there he was able to trick them into using Timelord technology to pull Clara out of time just before her final heartbeat. Much of the episode is then him trying to escape with Clara and breaking all the rules in the process. It's never stated but he clearly has very very strong feelings for Clara as he's willing to go through four-and-a-half-billion years of torture just to physically save her. Physically because he was going to have to pull a Donna and remove all of Clara's memories of him. In the end it's bittersweet because <i>he</i> loses his memories of Clara and Clara kinda still has to die. This was needed otherwise he would never move on. As Ashilder notes - if he's willing to break all the rules and risk the universe to get Clara back, the whole universe will always be in danger. 

The hybrid - not sure if this notion is ever really answered because several options were floated around by the Doctor and Ashilder. The hybrid, who threatens the very existence of the universe could be Ashilder (part human, part mire), the Doctor (part Timelord, part human), or two people (the Doctor and Clara). In any case it was the Doctor who heard the prophesy in the Cloisters on Gallifrey back when he was a student and it was this prophesy that propelled him to run away. The idea of the Doctor being the hybrid fits quite well as he certainly had no problem with destroying everything to save Clara.

Random thoughts:

Ashilder is back and still around all alone at the very very end of time itself. She hitches a lift in the second TARDIS the Doctor steals and so at the end of the episode, she has her very own TARIDS to fly around in. A TARDIS that currently contains both her and Clara! In a 50/50 game of chance it is the Doctor who loses his memories of Clara. So after they set things up for the Doctor to continue travelling on without her, Ashilder and Clara prepare to take Clara back to Gallifrey to be placed back into her fixed-point-death. But, who's to say they can't have an adventure or two before going back. Now there's a spin-off waiting to happen.

The diner scene was fake, generated within the TARDIS for when the Doctor wakes up from losing his memories. He tells a story to Clara who he doesn't realise is Clara because although he can kinda remember discreet events involving Clara, he can't really remember what she looks like or what she meant to him. Shout-out to Amy and Rory as he remembers being in the diner with them.

This stolen-TARDIS has the exterior of a diner as Ashilder, perusing the operations manual can't work out the chameleon circuit.

The General, last seen in the 50th Anniversary special returns and is shot by the Doctor (showing just how far the Doctor is willing to go). The regeneration seen in the previews is of him. He regenerates into a woman and it's stated her previous incarnations bar the one just passed were all women.

The soldiers, many of whom would have served with the Doctor in the Time War refuse to kill the Doctor on the President's orders and instead lay down their weapons and stand beside the Doctor. The Doctor is considered a war hero by ordinary folk.

The classic white-round-TARDIS returns as the Doctor steals another TARDIS on Gallifrey.

A confession dial is a Timelord's last chance to make amends with their past, face their demons and unburden their mind before they are uploaded into the Matrix to join all the other 'ghosts'.

The Doctor is effectively President of Gallifrey (and Earth)...interesting. It appears Gallifrey is now out of the time lock.

That was an interesting twist, the Doctor losing his memories of Clara but it makes sense. He'd become too swallowed up in grief and rage in losing Clara but by forgetting how much she meant to him, he can return back to the joy and lightness of being the Doctor. It was great having Clara (real Clara and not a holographic/subconscious Clara) back in this episode and as Peter Capaldi said, her departure was very sad, sad over several weeks and not what you'd expect. This is one of the saddest departures because the Doctor himself forgets her and because she knows she has to die and has to face death - twice! She'd walked out in Face the Raven and has to once again, having been given a slight reprive, face the raven once more. I liked Clara, she had spunk and she wasn't afraid to tell people (including the Doctor) off but Ashilder and others have remarked on her growing similaries to the Doctor and her willingness to head towards and spur the Doctor towards danger. Then again, who's to say she can't have a few adventures with Ashilder before facing death.

The scenes in the diner, at the end, were heartbreaking. She remembers everything about him. And he remembers nothing personal about her. The most important and personal things, he's forgotten. And that is heartbreaking.

Farewell Clara, you will be missed.










