Episode 3 - Under the Lake

The third epsiode and part one of this two-parter brought us back to Earth and introduced us to the first deaf character in Doctor Who which is fantastic. Cass also assumes leadership when their leader dies within the first five minutes and the crew are a good mix of characters - Moran, the original leader who dies saving Cass; Cass who is, as the Doctor says, the smartest person in the room when he's not there; Lunn who signs for Cass and is the youngest of the group; O'Donnell who is a huge fan of the Doctor; Bennett who is the scientist and most the cautious ; and Pritchard who is a class A profit-driven-jerk. On the ocean floor in the near future, a military crew have picked up a spaceship, empty save for some strange markings not even the TARDIS can translate. All are soon being hunted by homicidal ghosts, intent on turning them into more ghosts.

It was funny when the Doctor offended the crew by making light of their leader's death and had to resort to flipping through flash cards to find the appropriate response. Made funnier when he doesn't adapt it to the current situation and ends with "your friend slash family slash pet". There was a great chase sequence to catch the ghosts and it was actually quite spooky seeing them repeat the lines "the dark, the sword, the forsaken, the temple" over and over. I'm not convinced about HOW these words are supposed to guide the alien's friends to this very spot on the planet but anyhoot.

The conversation between the Doctor and Clara was a bit weird and awkward but I guess the Doctor always gets a bit weird and awkward when feelings and whatnot get involved. I think he was trying to make sure Clara was okay because she's becoming a bit like him - taking risks, running off on adventures and looking for trouble. Which is fun but often the Doctor needs someone to also ground him.

A nuclear problem leads to Clara and the Doctor split with half the crew each. Clara is stuck on the base with the Doctor needing to travel back in time to before the ocean floor became the ocean floor, back to when the spaceship first landed. But if you go back in time, you can change the present and it was rather scary seeing the Doctor as a ghost in the ocean coming towards Clara at the very end.

So how will the Doctor die then not die? (because clearly he is coming back). 
What is actually in the hibernation chamber? (is it the Doctor?)
Who will survive next week?

The "Next Time" previous looked really interesting and I can't wait to see what happens next.
 