Episode 8 - The Zygon Inversion

I had mixed feelings about this epsiode. There were some great moments but some moments also felt a bit over the top. We ended last week with zygon-Clara shooting an RPG at the Doctor's plane. We begin this epsiode with how the Doctor escapes. Human-Clara wakes up and moves about her apartment but in a dream-like sequence realises something is wrong. She's trapped in her own mind. But she is able to influence zygon-Clara and so manages to mis-aim the first RPG shot. The Doctor and Osgood parachute out before the second RPG hits the plane. Human Clara is able to subtley alert the Doctor that she's alive before zygon-Clara realises what's happening and then goes to interrogate her human self.

The Doctor and Osgood work together to figure out what's going on and where the Claras are before everyone meets up at the place it all started - the Black Archives at UNIT HQ under the Tower of London. The Doctor makes a very big dramatic speech and manages to convince both Kate and zygon-Clara (or Bonnie as she calls herself) that war is not solution and peace is restored. Oh yes that Kate was the real Kate pretending to be zygon-Kate. She might not have had backup in Truth or Consequences but she had her handy pistol with her.

One thing that really really bugged me - the Doctor putting on an American accent like a game show host. Don't. Just don't. Really...don't. I know it was comic relief but it just felt weird. In his speech the Doctor compares them to children throwing a tantrum but not really knowing what it is they want and not understanding the full consequences of war. They want war, but the Doctor has fought in an actual massive war and he doesn't want anyone to go through the loss and guilt he's been through. It was epic that speech and harks back to the difficult choices the Doctor made in the Time War. Rarely does new-Who comment on current world situations so it was interesting to have an episode that speaks about terrorism and the ways to deal with renegades and factions and the topic of war and peace.

The Osgood box, or should I say...boxes because of course there are two of them, are initially set up to be weapons of mass destruction with two buttons for each side - zygons: unmask all zygons or render all zygons 'human', and humans: kill all zygons or blow up the tower of London. Fifty-fifty chance of getting what you want.....or not. But in the end the boxes are revealed to have been a bluff, just two boxes with two buttons. But now that they know that, what is to keep the peace? Well as the Doctor reveals, this is the 15<sup>th</sup> time they've been through this and he's wiped their memories. Which kinda begs the question...is this the best solution? It looks like it's only been a few years (at most) since the 50<sup>th</sup> special and this is the 16<sup>th</sup> time they've been through this?! 

Zygon-Clara doesn't get her memory wiped though because the Doctor has been in her position before and knows that she will now do anything to keep the peace. But she can't go around as zygon-Clara so she becomes zygon-Osgood! Two of them again! Which maybe means that it was zygon-Osgood who was killed by Missy since I don't know if zygons can take on the human forms of other zygons. In any case there are now two Osgoods again. The Doctor does ask Osgood to come with him in the TARDIS (before he finds out there are two of them) but as much as she would love to travel the stars, she's staying on Earth to monitor and maintain the peace.

There wasn't much in the way of hints in this epsiode about what this series' finale will be about but we did see that Clara has a very strong mind, strong enough to influence zygon-Clara. The Doctor has mentioned concerns about Clara's mental state several times this series and other characters (Cass) have also made comments about Clara's willingness to take action and becoming Doctorish. There's also been a few episodes concerning hybrids (actually, there have been quite a few hybrids in previous series too between different species). But this series Davros mentions a prophesy concerning 'a hybrid creature' and asks whether the Doctor plays a part in its 'creation'. 

Spoilers - we do know that Maisie Williams (Ashilder) will be back in episode 10 (the next two episodes are stand-alone episodes) and we know she's been hanging about Coal Hill and that Rigsy (the kid who was 'Doctor-Clara''s side-kick last series) will be back in the episode as well. We also know that the following epsiode, the first part of the finale will feature the Doctor going solo (and by solo I mean as the ONLY actor at all in the episode) so there's speculation that something might happen in episode 10. From what we've been told Clara's departure will be a twist we don't expect, very sad and sad over a number of weeks. So I think something will happen in episode 10 that will result in the Doctor travelling alone in episode 11 and Clara's final episode will be in episode 12 (Hell Bent). Maybe the Doctor will try to save Clara but ultimately fail. 

But before epsiode 10 there's episode 9! And this one takes us back into space on a space station and looks like a spooky-horror episode. I've just realised we haven't visited any foreign planets this series (discounting Skaro). There's been a distinct lack of foreign civilisations as the Doctor has been Earth-bound. 
