Episode 6 - The Caretaker	

So we've come to the middlish episodes of this series and so far, no double episodes yet...must be a first in the reboot.
	
As every companion finds out, it's impossible to travel through time and space and <i>not</i> have your family or friends realise that the bloke 
you are popping off with is no ordinary bloke. In fact, he's not even human! In this episode, Clara realises that she cannot keep up with her two very 
different lives and her boyfriend Danny finally comes face to face with The Doctor. When you've got a time machine, time is all relative. So we 
get several snapshots of Clara preparing to go on several dates with Danny, only to get pulled into an adventure with The Doctor, and then returning 
right where she'd left off, often much less composed than before she got into the TARDIS. But hey, at least the Doctor got her back right on time 
rather than 12 months later!

The alien of the week is the Skovox Blitzer, one of the "deadliest" machines created. Frankly it takes a back seat to the Doctor-Clara-Danny 
storyline and is only there as a pretense to get The Doctor into the school. The alien trundles along rather noisily (and slowly) and sure, it has 
a vaporising gun, but it's a bit like a poor-man's dalek. Anyway the Doctor is on it's trail and plans to trap the Skovox Blitzer at the school.
He does this by going undercover as the new caretaker, much to Clara's displeasure. There are a few funny moments when The Doctor, knowing she has a 
boyfriend at the school, mistakes her fellow English teacher as the boyfriend, primarily because he bears a vague resemblance to Matt Smith (he wears 
a bowtie). The Doctor is therefore rudely surprised when he finds out that Clara's boyfriend is actually Danny Pink, the former soldier, 
now Maths teacher. The Doctor constantly refers to him as the "PE teacher" as an insult. The Doctor never took well to his companion's boyfriends.
The fact that Danny ruined his plans by moving some of his gadgets didn't help.

Nor does Danny take to The Doctor, as the Timelord reminds him of his former commanders and Danny correctly identifies him as a former soldier too.
Danny isn't afraid to make his thoughts known and mocks the Doctor once he's on the TARDIS, saluting and Yessir-ing The Doctor. He can see that Clara 
follows The Doctor without much questioning and is worried about her. Although as companions go, I've felt Clara's more often than not "worn the pants
in their relationship". The dynamic's been different with the 12<sup>th</sup> Doctor, Clara's become much less sure about him and she's all kinds 
of upset and angry, mostly with The Doctor for bringing the alien to the school but also because of his reaction to Danny.

Clara's loyalties are wavering and with her declaration that she loves Danny (not exactly the most romantic moment), there are really only 
two possibilities - either Clara leaves, or Danny joins them. Considering how things are going, the latter is seeming less and less likely. 
This was a very Clara-centric episode, as many of them have been this series. The fact that Clara was never a full-time companion and only joined
The Doctor on "Wednesdays" meant that we got to see her Earth-life much more fleshed out.

After a bit of a break, we finally got to see a bit more about "The Promised Land" mystery arc. A police officer who was killed by the Skovox Blitzer 
ends up in a very white area talking to who appears to be Missy's assistant. Not much information provided but there you go.
Overall, I didn't find it a good episode. The alien was just a side story to the main drama concerning Clara. The Doctor was quite rude (no 
surprise there) but now he seems much harder, dismissive and snarkier about things. 

