Episode 9 - Flatline	

I'm really hope that Jamie Mathieson writes more episodes for Doctor Who because the two he's written this season (Mummy on the Orient Express 
last week and this week's Flatline have been fantastic. He knows how to write original and scary aliens and these are the two best this series.

This week's aliens are two-dimensional creatures. We never really see what they look like (apart from some vague shimmer-shape) because they often 
take the guise of other people. Initially they exist in 2D, moving about in the walls and floor and basically "flattening" the people they kill into 
the wall. Later they learn to take 3D form (sort of phasing/shimmering in and out). The reveal when all the people-murals in the tunnel start turning 
around is quite scary and there was definitely a lot of running this episode as the group try to avoid "the boneless" as The Doctor dubs them in the end 
(a terrible name but anyway).

The comedy in this episode is provided by the fact that The Doctor who is stuck in his shrunken TARDIS. 
The aliens are leeching power from the TARDIS, which first 
shrinks (from an outside perspective) into a half-size version. By the time Clara returns from scouting the area, the TARDIS is small enough to fit 
into her handbag. It was an interesting idea and it worked really well. With The Doctor unable to physically help, he gives Clara his psychic paper and 
sonic screwdriver and she, in a hilarious scene, takes on the mantle of "The Doctor, Doctor Oswald". But with great power also comes great 
responsibility and Clara soon realises that as "The Doctor" it falls on her to make the decisions and 'rally the troops' as it were.

The troops in this episode consist of a crew out doing community service. There's Rigsy, a youth 'doing time' for graffiti, a grumpy 
overseer with such bad imagination the psychic paper doesn't work on him, and a few others also in green jumpsuits who get consumed/flattened by the 
aliens. Rigsy's talent with graffiti comes in handy when Clara gets him to spray on a piece of paper a replica of a tunnel door and Clara tricks 
the boneless into channelling their energy into the fake-door, through the wall and into the TARDIS. This gives the TARDIS enough energy to grow
back to it's proper size and allow The Doctor to exit and send the boneless back home.

Clara too was on her way home before this adventure began. The Doctor was supposed to drop her off so she could meet up with Danny, who doesn't 
know that she's still travelling with The Doctor. Seems like she's back to living her two-lives again. The Doctor, having found out that Danny doesn't 
know that Clara's still travelling with him, is not happy at all. We know that next episode Danny comes onboard the TARDIS (with a group of students), so 
there will probably be a confrontation of some sort. 

The episode ends with Missy observing Clara through an ipad-like device and noting that she chose well with Clara. The mystery continues...