Episode 4 - Listen	

Do you ever talk aloud to yourself? Is anyone listening? Apparently according to the Doctor....Yes! ... Although it turns out the answer is No 
by the end.

This episode focuses more on Clara and her fellow teacher Danny Pink, with some interesting revelations about their future together. It picks up 
where it left off last time. Danny having promised Clara a drink, asks Clara out to dinner. Danny is awkward throughout their interactions 
and has a serious case of 'foot-in-mouth'. He appears to be suffering from PTSD and is quite sensitive and jumpy about any comment that might go
to his military past. In any event, the date does not go well and Clara storms off back home where the Doctor and the Tardis are waiting for her. 
Funnily enough he's decided to hide out in Clara's bedroom in case Clara brought her date home.

But since she's free for the night, he's decided to take her back to the past, to the moment when she first had her 'bogeyman' dream about 
creaks in the night and creatures under the bed. Clara gets 'plugged-in' to the Tardis's telepathic circuits. The only problem is she gets 
distracted and they end up in (what we realise as) Danny's childhood back when he was called Rupert. Having eventually come to the same realisation and 
seen Danny's past, Clara asks the Doctor to take her back to the restaurant right after she storms off so she can try to save the date.

But it seems like things are just not going to work when Clara slips in Danny's former name 'Rupert' and Danny gets fed up with Clara's weirdness 
and lies and leaves. But not before a spaceman appears. Thinking it's the Doctor, Clara angrily follows him back to the Tardis where she's 
shocked by the revelation that it's...Danny? Danny with an afro! Only it's not the same Pink. Still confused as to why the Tardis ended up in 
Danny's past and not aware of the connection with Clara's date, the Doctor has tried to re-run the search and ended up grabbing Orson Pink. Orson Pink, 
who appears to be possibly Clara and Danny's great-grandson 100 years in the future. That's something Clara didn't expect to see!

Nor did she expect to go further into the Doctor's past than we've ever seen before. Having not seen Classic Who I'm not sure if we've ever seen 
the Doctor's childhood but here we see he was a scared little boy. I'm not even sure <i>how</i> this is possible when I thought everything was time-locked 
but Clara ends up in what looks like a shed/barn (the same one as in the 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary special) where one little boy is crying. 
We never get to see the child Doctor (apart from his feet) and once back in the Tardis Clara refuses to reveal to the (current) Doctor where 
they are.

This week's aliens turn out not to be aliens at all, but the fear of the dark and the possibility that there might be something out there. 
In fact, there were no aliens at all! Quite novel, I can't remember a Doctor Who episode with no aliens. It was less scary and suspenseful than 
I thought it would be but I guess the main mystery for the night was Danny Pink.