Episode 8 - Mummy on the Orient Express	

A few weeks have passed since Clara slammed the door on the TARDIS and told The Doctor she never wanted to see him again. The Doctor is taking 
her on one last trip, their last hurrah, on a space version of the Orient Express. Being loosely tied to the Agatha Christie novel, 
the episode reminded me of the Series 4 episode "The Unicorn and the Wasp" which featured Agatha Christie, and follows a vaguely similar style.
Passengers start dying under mysterious circumstances and it's up to The Doctor to figure out why.

I really liked this episode. It starts off with a countdown and 66 seconds later, the first passenger is dead. Each death is preceded by this 
countdown in the corner and suspense is built up as we wonder...who will be the next victim? As per the episode title, the alien of the week is a mummy 
(also known as 'The Foretold') and a suitably scary and well CGI'ed one at that, particularly when it goes <i>through</i> The Doctor.  We haven't 
really had a good scary alien this series. The frightening thing is knowing that you're about to die and 
there's absolutely no way to stop it. Things crack on at a pretty good pace and after last week's rather downcast episode, it was nice to 
have a more upbeat, bright and larger cast setting. The Doctor's psychic paper also got an outing and it was funny seeing that the Captain's 
greatest fear was that of a mystery shopper. 

That's not to say that things are back to normal between The Doctor and Clara. They <i>are</i> travelling together but things are a bit awkward. 
The Doctor and Clara spend most of the episode apart and Clara gets time to think things through. She's wavering, she doesn't 
hate him, but she also can't keep wondering if he's really got her back. By the end of the episode, she realises that he's not heartless. 
Sometimes he appears to be so but it's always part of a bigger plan, there is method to his madness. 
And in the end, it's all about saving people, because that's what The Doctor does. He doesn't always succeed, but not for a lack of trying.

So for now at least, Clara is willing to travel with him again, and it was great to see The Doctor light up on hearing that, we haven't seen him 
smile much in this incarnation. It'll be interesting to see how the Clara-Doctor-Danny dynamic progresses although I do hope it doesn't eat up 
too much screen time. The other story arc was continued with the question of who keeps contacting The Doctor raised again. The train was run by a 
computer 'Gus' (which reminded me of the angels in the Christmas episode 'Voyage of the Damned') but someone else was behind all this, 
someone powerful enough to orchestrate all the pieces together, someone who has The Doctor's number.

All in all, a cracking Doctor Who episode.