Episode 1 - Deep Breath	

How long can you hold your breath?
This was the first movie-length episode for the 12<sup>th</sup> Doctor and overall it was an enjoyable episode. Victorian England. Madam Vastra, Jenny 
and Strax. Clockwork droids. Scottishness. Humour. And a mysterious character at the end who looks to be the puzzle for this series.
The dinosaur was a bit of an anti-climax, opening the episode but playing no real part after it went up in flames within the first quarter. 
The Doctor was confused about everything for most of the episode (similar to the 8<sup>th</sup> Doctor post-regeneration). Poor Clara was really cast adrift, not quite sure if this new Doctor still the same man, if she could still trust him, if he still cared.

But confusion aside, where the Doctor is, trouble follows and this time, some new but familiar enemies returned. Anyone who 
remembers the clockwork droids from the Series 2 episode "The Girl in the Fireplace" will pick up their distinctive ticking sound only this time, 
instead of the ship "SS Madam de Pompadour", it's the "SS Marie Antoinette". The title refers to the fact that the droids obviously don't breathe 
but detect life based on breath/air circulation. Don't tell me you didn't try to hold your breath with Clara as she attempted to escape! 
The Doctor's disguise and plan to save Clara was a clever idea and his conversation with the main droid showed a darker side to this ancient alien. 
I was suprised by the droid's grizzly ending though. For a children's show it was visually confronting.

While I understand the relationship between Madam Vastra and Jenny is all new-age and there have been many a joke about it, I think it has 
been commented on time and time again to the point of it becoming rather forced. Perhaps it is more novel for those who haven't seen all their episodes 
but the need to constantly refer to their relationship status seems somewhat contrived.	

This episode also had some great witty banter. The restaurant scene was quite hilarious, with Clara's reaction to  
the Doctor reeking of rubbish and then the Doctor calling Clara an "egomaniac needy game player sort of person". The Doctor was pretty witty himself 
when he was bumbling around with the tramp, discovering his "attack eyebrows", frowny face and Scottishness. 
And Strax, good ol Strax is always a hoot and there were some great interactions with Clara.

What was really surprising was the 11<sup>th</sup> Doctor's surprise appearance at the end to reassure Clara (and the audience) that yes, 
he really was/is still the same man. In a bit of timey-wimey, the 11<sup>th</sup> Doctor phones the future Clara from Trenzalore to tell her that 
no matter how afraid she is, he is more so, and he still needs her. People will debate whether it was really necessary to bring up an old Doctor 
just as we were getting used to the new Doctor, but it was touching, particularly as this new Doctor is quite different from his previous 
incarnations.
	
All in all it was a pretty decent introduction to the 12<sup>th</sup> Doctor. The ending for the pair was reminiscent of the Series 1 episode 
"The End of the World", with the Doctor and Clara going for coffee (rather than chips). The episode ending revealed the main mystery for this 
season...Missy, 'paradise' and the droid who supposedly died.