Episode 10 - In the Forest of the Night	

We're getting to the business end of the series with this being the last episode before the two-part series finale.

Forests have sprung up overnight all over the Earth and London resembles a jungle. It was pretty cool seeing the jungle setting with 
Nelson's column sticking up here, the Underground sign over there and vines twisting around everything. I love a green leafy setting. Danny and 
Clara have taken a class on an overnight excursion to the museum only to find the city landscape radically changed when they exit the next morning. 
Clara of course immediately calls the Doctor, only he already knows about it as he is in London and one of the students, Maebh, has wandered off and 
found the TARDIS. The group heads towards the TARDIS, Clara buzzing with questions and Danny more worried about getting the kids home.

It was funny seeing the kids' reactions to the TARDIS because while most adults are stunned and run in and out in disbelief, these kids are 
pretty blase about it all, with Ruby noting that after seeing an 
entire forest pop up overnight, nothing surprises her anymore. The kids of course can't wait to get their hands on all the controls and buttons.
With Danny and the Doctor meeting again, there's bound to be trouble, especially since Clara left her marking onboard the TARDIS and 
Danny realises that she's been seeing the Doctor and lying to him about it. Danny takes it pretty well. He's not happy of course but rather than blow 
up he's more of the quiet frowny type. The two argue, but he's more concerned about getting the kids safely home than working out why 
a forest has suddenly sprung up around them or why Clara's been lying to him about the Doctor.

The Doctor thinks it has something to do with Maebh. Her sister died and since then, she's been hearing things. And now she's run off. It doesn't 
solve the mystery but running around after her keeps the episode moving. The Doctor converses with the "trees" (which is really quite spooky with
the deeper voice coming out of Maebh's mouth) and realises that there is nothing he can do, the Earth is doomed as there's a gigantic solar flare 
heading towards them. The Doctor offers to save them but Clara explains that the kids just want their mums and dads, Danny will never leave the kids 
behind on their own and Clara won't be the "last of her kind". But as we all know, the Earth doesn't get scorched away. Turns out these flame-
resistant trees have popped up for a reason. They're here to save the Earth from the solar storm, which they do and then promptly disappear. 

The Doctor and Clara watch the show from the TARDIS in space and Missy once again watches on. Who she is, 
we'll find out next week and judging from the trailer, it looks like the mystery of who <i>is</i> Clara will also resurface.	