Episode 12 - Death in Heaven

First off, there's a lot to like about this episode - the return of Osgood, Kate Lethbridge-Stewart and UNIT, diabolical Missy (somewhat), 
knocking out The Doctor and the return of the Cybermen. But there was also 
a fair bit I didn't like - Osgood's death (noooooooooooooooo), the shortlived "death" of Lethbridge-Stewart, the rather ridiculous method 
of saving the Earth, Missy's death (again), and President Doctor (even if it wasn't his choosing). And a lot of other bits I found meh. As the 
series finale it was always going to be an over-the-top action drama fest. And it was. But personally I liked last week's episode "Dark Water" more.

Storyline. Missy has created a new army of seemingly unbeatable cybermen ("how do you win against an army that can weaponise the dead") and 
everyone at first is milling around them taking selfies, as you do. Osgood pops up ("bow ties are cool") then UNIT and Kate Lethbridge-Stewart. 
The Doctor and Missy get knocked out and taken aboard the international "Air Force One". Implausibly every nation has agreed to appoint The Doctor 
The President of Earth in the event of an alien invasion. It's 'raining' over the graveyards and the Cybermen are rising from their graves. Missy 
breaks out of her restraints and waltzes around like a crazy person killing Osgood (nooooooooooooooo) and sending Lethbridge-Stewart out 
of the plane. Clara meanwhile tries to pretend she's The Doctor so the Cybermen won't kill her but she's not fooling them. Cyber-Danny arrives and 
saves her (kinda) but pleads with her to turn off his emotions so he won't feel the pain. The final showdown begins but not all is what it seems. 
Missy has built an army not for herself but for The Doctor. So he can use the army to battle the bad guys. To prove to him that he is not that 
different to her. We get some clips from earlier this season of The Doctor asking Clara if he's a good man, how he's not a hero and of the Dalek 
telling him that he'd make a good Dalek. The Doctor rejects the power and throws the controller to the one Cyberman whose love has conquered his 
programming - Danny. Cyber-Danny then takes all the Cybermen up to explode in the raincloud, stopping the invasion. Missy gives The Doctor the 
coordinates of Gallifrey, Cyber Senior Lethbridge-Stewart shoots Missy and life goes back to normal. Danny uses his one ticket back to save the 
boy he killed and The Doctor finds nothing at the coordinates Missy gave him. Then both Clara and The Doctor lie to each other although The Doctor 
jumps the gun first by assuming Clara and Danny are back together. Santa shows up in the TARDIS so I guess he'll be in this year's Christmas 
Special. And that's the storyline in a nutshell.

The good - it was great to see Osgood, Lethbridge-Stewart and UNIT return after their appearance in the 50<sup>th</sup> special. Osgood is smart,
a self-admitted OCD and very briefly hinted as a possible companion before being turned to ash by Missy. Thankfully even though Kate Lethbridge-Stewart 
was sucked out of the plane she survived (apparently caught by Cyber-Dad). Clara trying the "I'm The Doctor" route was a funny twist even if 
unsuccessful. The Doctor falling out of the exploding plane and into the TARDIS was pretty nice. 

The not so good - seriously? sending all the Cybermen up into the sky and exploding them completely eradicates every trace of the rainclouds?
I know Doctor Who resolutions are often a bit ridiculous but this seemed like a bit of an easy cop-out. 
That Lethbridge-Stewart Senior managed to save his daughter Kate also seemed a bit far-fetched and for a world emptying its graves, the ground at the graveyards
looked suspiciously untouched. Danny/Cyber-Danny. I have to admit the interactions between The Doctor and Danny have been a bit of a low for me 
this series. Part of it is because Danny has been pointing out some harsh unpalatable truths. 
This series was predicted to be darker and we have seen the darker side of The Doctor on show, particularly in "Into the Dalek". 
What's been jarring for me is how "passively blunt" Danny has been about it and the lack of balance, the lack of the type of hope and optimism 
of the other series. The Ninth Doctor had his 
Oncoming Storm moments	but his pain and darkness was still balanced by a slightly manic positivity that's been missing this series. That's not to 
say The Doctor needs to be bouncing around like a maniac but apart from a very few moments, it just feels like there's been a bit of a cloud
hanging over this series.	

Oh and did I mention Osgood is gone? That kinda sums up this episode for me.
