Episode 2 - Into the Dalek

The second episode of the series brought the return of the Doctor's most hated of enemies, the Daleks. And hate indeed was one of the main themes 
of the episode as the Doctor pondered what kind of man he was - was he a good man? .
The question was raised when the Doctor came across the seemingly impossible - a good Dalek. The Doctor's prejudices blinded him to the idea that 
a dalek could be anything more than a metal case of hate (similar to the Series 1 episode "Dalek"). Like Rose before her, Clara was able to challenge 
the Doctor to see what was right infront of him - a dalek who was able to appreciate beauty and life. But the Doctor was in for a nasty surprise when 
the dalek looked into the Doctor's mind and found not just the Doctor's love but also the the Doctor's hate. And it is a burning hatred for the 
destruction of the daleks. As the dalek says at the end to the Doctor - "you would make a good dalek". 

In this episode the Doctor lands in the middle of a war between the daleks and humans and having found this 'good dalek', 
gets miniaturised along with Clara and three soldiers to go inside the dalek to 'fix it'. It was interesting to see the daleks from a different 
viewpoint (from the inside) and to discover new information about them, like how they have an immune system and are able to suppress memories 
to keep themselves 'pure'. And when one of the soldiers, Gretchen, sacrifices herself to buy the others time, it's a reminder that while 
the Doctor's plan might save the day, he achieves it only through the willingness of others to lay down their lives. But what actually happened to 
Gretchen? We're shown she is with Missy in 'paradise'. But who is Missy and why is she collecting those who died for/because of the Doctor? The mystery 
deepens.

With Clara being a 'sometimes companion' - only hopping on occasional trips with the Doctor - part of the episode focuses on Clara's normal life. 
We saw her family briefly last series but this season we will be getting more insight into her life as a teacher (incidentally at the same 
school that Ian and Barbara taught at in the very first episode of Doctor Who). This episode introduced a new recurring character, Danny Pink. Danny is 
Clara's fellow teacher and a former soldier who looks like he's still affected by what he's seen in war. 

The series is still finding its feet with the introduction of new characters, a darker tone and a different dynamic between the Doctor and 
Clara. This episode felt a little disconnected and jumbled, possibly because it jumped between the school and dalek for a while but also because 
it seemed to lack the storyline flow of previous seasons. It felt like there were a lot of events but not enough to glue them together smoothly. 
But it's still early in the season and inevitably it'll take a while for things to settle down. 