Episode 5 - Time Heist	

Why would the Doctor rob the bank?

The trailer for this episode was intriguing. Finally, a trip to the future and an alien planet! The return of the memory worm!
The Doctor, as usual, interrupts Clara as she's about to go on a date with Danny Pink and answers his ringing Tardis phone. Next thing they know 
they're sitting around a table with an augmented human (computer chips in his brain) and a mutant human (takes on the image of anyone she touches). 
None of them remember why they're there or what's going on but apparently, they're there to rob the wealthiest/most secure bank in the universe.

Or so says 'The Architect', the mysterious figure who is always one step ahead, gathering the perfect team, leaving helpful clues and cases scattered 
around the bank. Which leads one to ask, as the Doctor does - why did The Architect need them if he could clearly get in and out of the bank? 
Because the bank is 'guarded' by an alien telepath ('The Teller') who apparently can sense 'guilt' (i.e. if someone is thinking of trying to rob the 
bank or commit fraud). Once a suspect is found, The Teller turns the person's brain to mush. Still not entirely sure how the group isn't found out - the Doctor's 
reasoning that the person who <i>was</i> found out had more guilt seems a little weak. But in any case the chase is on as the group try to outwit 
'The Teller'. There's action and suspense and it's a thrilling run through the fortress as neither we nor the group really know what's going on. 

Although it's not too much of a stretch to guess that 'The Architect' is really...The Doctor, and the target...The Teller. Apparently he and 
Clara are there to rescue the alien and the only 
way for them to bust the alien out of the bank was to do so on the fly. If The Doctor had gone in the usual way, The Teller would have sensed their 
guilty thoughts and The Director would have detected their plans. They can't take the TARDIS in as there's a solar storm coming in that would affect 
the TARDIS but it's required to override the security system. As it is, their two accomplices 'die' along the way, only to later reveal that the 
atomisers they used were actually teleports (similar to the Series 1 episode 'Bad Wolf') and they return to save The Doctor and Clara. 
Still not sure <i>how</i> they knew to take the place of The Teller's guards though.

So the timey wimey loopy pieces to this puzzle fit together in this way - The phone call the Doctor received at the beginning was from The Director 
(on what I presume is her death bed). She wants The Doctor to free The Teller. So The Doctor selects the team and plants all the clue cases and 
then sends them in with the memory worms. They eventually meet The Director down in the private vault who sends down for The Teller. The Doctor gets an inkling 
of what's happening and as The Director flees, gives her his number, telling her to call him one day. Then having worked it all out, the group + 
The Teller (and his +1) then leave the bank and The Doctor sends everyone back home.

Sure there are some plot holes but it was a good fast-paced and suspenseful episode and it was nice to get away from Earth.