Episode 3 - Robots of Sherwood	

Robin Hood...not just a legend.
So Clara's pick of historical characters to meet is Robin Hood! The Doctor dismissed her idea, stating adamantly that Robin Hood was a fictional 
character, nothing more than a storybook legend. He humours her though, taking her to Sherwood Forest in the 12<sup>th</sup> century where the first 
person they come across is none other than the legend himself. The Doctor however can't believe it and spends most of the episode trying to prove that Robin, 
his merry men and the Sheriff are not real, that they are an alien creation of some sort.

He's right, in a way, because aliens <i>are</i> involved. The Sheriff managed to hook up with some alien robots who crash-landed nearby and hides 
their spaceship within his castle and the robots as his knights. The aliens were on their way to 'the promised land (more on this later) and require 
gold to rebuild their engines. The Sheriff, believing that the robots will help him achieve world domination, forces the people to give up all their 
gold and conscripts the peasants to assist in building the engine parts.

The Doctor, as much as he's declared himself <i>not</i> to be Clara's boyfriend, is clearly jealous of Robin Hood and the two of them enter into a game of 
one-manship in everything from sword-play to who can die slower. It was quite funny when the Doctor admitted that he had cheated in the 
archery contest by fixing a homing device on the arrow-head. I quite liked this portrayal of Robin Hood, he was witty, sad, heroic and laughed 
(in that fake-kind-of-way) all the time. This was something the Doctor found particularly annoying, which just made Robin do it even more. 
It always makes for great chemistry and interaction when the characters are able to poke the Doctor and get him all riled up.

The most annoying and implausible part of the episode was how they eventually saved the day. The alien spaceship was going to explode and without 
enough gold onboard, it wasn't going to make it out of the atmosphere. Somehow, shooting one golden arrow into the side of the spaceship was 
enough to boost it into orbit. Yeeeaaaah. So that was a cop-out. Usually there's <i>at least</i> a whole bunch of mumbo jumbo from the Doctor explaining 
why something works.

But this series seems to be much more in your face about things - the Doctor's blunt "Clara, I'm not your boyfriend", the phone call from 
the 11<sup>th</sup> Doctor, Madam Vastra and Jenny, and now the the mystery of 'the promised land'. Perhaps I'm looking through rose-tinted glasses 
but it felt like the series mystery was a lot more subtle in previous years. 'Bad Wolf', 'Torchwood', 'Harold Saxon' and the 'disappearing planets' all 
were mentioned throughout their respective series. But you generally had to be paying attention to realise its significance because <i>the Doctor  
himself</i> didn't pick up on it until late in the series. 
In the Moffat era the arcs have been a bit more obvious. We had the cracks and the Silence appearing everywhere screaming 'mysterious series arc!'
and now, 'the promised land'. 'The promised land' has been mentioned in every episode so far as the place the aliens are all searching for. All 
we know is that it looks like some quaint British garden overseen by someone named 'Missy' (who claims the Doctor is her boyfriend), and that dead 
characters have turned up there. Thankfully Missy did not turn up at the end of this episode.

Overall, compared to the previous two episodes, this one felt like it flowed a lot better. This was probably helped by the fact that the story 
of Robin Hood is legendary, so a lot of the character development and backstory was already a given. It also had a 
lighter feel to it which was most welcome after two episodes which showed the Doctor in a darker light.