Episode 11 - Dark Water	

Wow. Wow wow wow wow wow wow. And so begins Part One of the Series 8 finale.

First up, the biggest reveal we've been waiting for this series - Who is Missy? And boy are we in for a treat. There's been ongoing 
speculation (which I've avoided) and many people were on the money - The Master's back, regenerated as a woman. Missy = Mistress = Master. I was 
inwardly squealing when this was revealed and it was a beautiful surprise. But let's deal with the rest of the episode first because the puzzle
nicely unravelled over 40 minutes.

The episode begins with Clara, who's spent some time mulling over what Danny told her last episode (although why she has post-it notes 
with details from all the previous episode stuck all over her bookshelf is still a puzzle to me). She's on the phone with him and finally tells 
him that she loves him. But what happens next is a terribly good reason why you shouldn't blurt out profound statements over the phone while the 
other person is out and about. Because Danny, caught up in the moment, steps out onto the road and, well, you can guess what happens next. I would 
have expected Clara to hear screeching tires or a thud or the phone dropping but all she hears is silence and then a very apologetic bystander. They 
do a nice cut of her running to the scene that then blends into (probably) a few weeks later as she stands there staring at the spot where it happened.

The love of your life dies and your best friend has a time machine. Not too difficult to see where this is going. But rather than asking directly, 
because deep down she knows you can't just go back and bring people back from the dead, she tries to trick The Doctor into turning back time. 
It's actually a pretty dramatic and heartbreaking scene. Standing at the edge of an active volcano she threatens to throw all the TARDIS keys into 
the lava unless he brings Danny back. On a side note I thought he could open the doors by clicking his fingers but maybe there still needs to be 
an active key. The Doctor stands his ground and Clara throws all the keys away, devastated but she would do it all again. The Doctor, is not 
so easily tricked. Because the sleep patch she slapped on him actually never worked, instead inducing a dream state in <i>Clara</i>. They are still 
on the TARDIS and The Doctor let it all play out to see how far Clara would go. Clara's betrayed him, but he's still going to help her because 
he cares about her ("Do you think I care for you so little that betraying me would make a difference?"). And so plugging Clara into the TARDIS, off to the "afterlife" or wherever Danny is they go.

There's so much that happens next it's hard to know where to start! So let's start with the Nethersphere/Promised Land aka the place where all the 
dead people keep turning up because that's where Danny finds himself. Seb, the perfectly witty AI interface welcomes Danny with coffee and the 
obligatory questionnaire. Someone has been uploading the souls of the dead into a Gallifreyan matrix data slice, storing these souls to be downloaded 
at a later date. Seb brings the funny in such a wonderfully understated way. Same with Doctor Chang, another quirky understated character who 
The Doctor and Clara meet when the TARDIS materialises in what appears to be a mausoleum with giant fish tanks containing skeletons. 

I didn't recognise the windows at first although the giant circle joined with a smaller circle (like a tear) looked familiar. 
But for hardcore fans, they would have recognised the eyes of the cybermen! Doctor Chang explains that 
the skeletons are held in place with an "invisible" exoskeleton, invisible in the "dark water" which only shows organic material. Hmmmm.....
The organisation 3W was set up to take care of the dead when the founder discovered voices in TV static. Voices that repeated the three words
"don't cremate me". Spooky. Dr Chang manages to connect Clara up with Danny and as they communicate over the "telephone" the Doctor goes to 
investigate something that's been bugging him.

Backtracking a bit, when The Doctor and Clara first arrived, they encountered Missy, who cleverly claims she is a 
"Mobile Intelligence Systems Interface" android and gives The Doctor a very big welcoming smooch. The Doctor's reaction is priceless. Then 
placing his hand on her chest, something that again shocks The Doctor, she claims that the Doctor maintains her heart. At the time she cleverly 
covers it with "Dr Chang" but now all is revealed. A Gallifreyan matrix data slice, two hearts, Missy, is a Timelord. The one she claims he 
abandoned. He's befuddled, in shock and now running around downtown London confounded. Because The Master is back and like last time, she plans to 
take over the world. She's taking the dead, uploading their minds, upgrading their bodies and creating a new race of Cybermen -
"cybermen from cyberspace". Humanity's biggest weakness - "the dead outnumber the living".

Meanwhile Clara's heart to heart with Danny's not going so well. She's not sure it's really him but will do anything to save him if he's "real". He 
can't allow her to kill herself to reach him and so gets her to terminate the call. Danny's an upstanding guy, but I've always found him stiff, 
a bit dour, a bit too Eyeore. We get a glimpse here of why that might be. Danny's been living with the guilt of having killed a young boy back when he 
was a soldier. A boy he meets face to face in this virtual "world".

Part one ends with Danny contemplating whether he should delete his emotions, Clara trapped inside with a cyberman and the Doctor in shock outside 
with Missy. What a cliffhanger. 