Episode 7 - Kill the Moon	

Well, considering the events of this series so far, we all knew the train wreck that was coming. So the question is...was this Clara's last 
episode? (the answer is no, as she's in the series finale, but you've got to wonder how long she will keep putting up with things)

Last week one of the students, Courtney Woods, stumbled on The Doctor and his TARDIS. Apparently after telling her she was "not special" and 
then taking her into space (where she threw up), Courtney's been in a bit of a mood. Clara tries to get The Doctor to take back what he said but he 
doesn't, instead offering to take her to the moon. They land not on the present-day moon but in the year 2049, where something on the moon is 
wrecking destruction on the Earth (gravity and all that). A moon carrying an extra billion tonnes will do that. Because it turns out our moon is not 
a moon at all but a giant egg. And like all live eggs, it's hatching time.

But the trio are not the only people on the moon. A third-rate team of astronauts have been sent to investigate and if necessary, destroy the 
moon. Their space shuttle was a museum piece because the space program was effectively dead. Not sure how blowing up the moon was meant to make 
things better on Earth but there you go. After several lives are lost, to giant spiders that are actually "germs" on the giant baby alien, 
it all comes down to a choice. The moon is hatching and they can either let the alien go, or destroy the alien which will 
somehow keep the moon intact. With only 1.5 hours to go, The Doctor gets into the TARDIS and leaves Clara, Courtney and the other astronaut on the moon 
to decide the fate of the moon. To destroy or not to destroy. As Clara points out later, this was exceptionally cruel of him when she considered 
him her friend.

The question is posed to the people of Earth and they pretty much unanimously vote to destroy the alien. But at the very very very last moment, 
Clara presses the button to deactivate the bomb and the TARDIS returns. The alien hatches, the moon disintegrates, the alien lays a new "moon" and 
then the alien flies away. People get inspired and the space program restarts and humans spread throughout the galaxy. Happy ending. Or not. 
Because Clara is absolutely furious with The Doctor and gives him a thorough tongue-lashing for leaving them up there on their own to decide the 
fate of humanity...on their own. It's true that sometimes The Doctor will leave the decision in other people's hands - just think of what happened 
in the 50<sup>th</sup> special, or the episode with the Silurians. But he's always (unless he can't be) there. This is the first time he's deliberately, 
without needing to, left his companions in the lurch to make the decision. This Doctor is darker and seemingly less understanding and compassionate 
than his predecessors.

And Clara's had enough. She's been hanging on by a thread and now, The Doctor having put not just herself but her student in mortal danger, she's 
livid. He's not the same man as he once was and Clara doesn't trust him anymore. Doesn't trust that he'll have her back. 
She tells The Doctor to leave and never come back. Her rage against The Doctor was something to behold. Pretty decent episode with a fantastic ending.